The characters in this film have no names (with some exceptions) and thus they shall
be referred to by number or by occupation.
Juror #1 is a assistant high school
American football coach.
he's the Jury foreman who's in charge of the
whole deliberation process.
Juror #2 is a meek and unpretentious bank worker,
although initially rather cowardly,
becomes far more courageous in the second part.
#3 is a businessman, and a rather distraught father
opinionated, disrespectfuly, and very angry.
#4 is a rational, unflappable, analytical stock broker, who is focused on the facts.
Juror #5 is a man who grew up in the slums.
Other than that, we don't know much about him--although he doesn't take kindly to insults toward "slum boys".
#6 is a house painter; tough guy, blue collar, very principled and respectful
--although willing to come to fists.
Juror #7 is a wise-cracking salesman, and is a Yankees fan.
However, he has little-to-no investment in the case.
Juror #8 is an architect, and really, he's the protagonist of the film.
The guy who propose that the boy may not be guilty.
#9 is a wise and observant senior who gives the benefit of the doubt.
Juror #10 is a garage owner; pushy, and loud-mouthed, as well as very bigoted.
Juror #11 is a European watch-maker, who became an American citizen;
very polite, very wise, and also making a point of speaking proper English.
Finally #12 is a wise-cracking advertising executive;
an individual who flip-flops in his decision of guilty and not-guilty.
In a preliminary vote, all jurors vote "guilty"
except Juror 8, who argues that the boy deserves
some deliberation.
This irritates some of the other jurors, who
are impatient for a quick deliberation, especially
Juror 7, who has tickets to the evening's
Yankees game, and Juror 10, who demonstrates
blatant prejudice against people from slums.
Juror 8 questions the accuracy and reliability
of the only two witnesses and the prosecution's
claim that the murder weapon, a common switchblade
(of which he possesses an identical copy),
was "rare".
Juror 8 argues that reasonable doubt exists
and that he therefore cannot in conscience
vote "guilty", but concedes that he has merely
hung the jury.
Juror 8 suggests a secret ballot - from which
he will abstain - and agrees to change his
vote if the others unanimously vote "guilty".
The ballot is held and a new "not guilty"
vote appears.
An angry Juror 3 accuses Juror 5, who grew
up in a slum, of changing his vote out of
sympathy towards slum children.
What made you change your vote?
He didn't change his vote
I did
Juror 8 argues that the noise of a passing
train would have obscured the verbal threat
that one witness claimed to have heard the
boy make to his father: "I'm going to kill
you", as well as arguing that this phrase
often is used by people who do not mean it
literally.
Juror 11 also changes his vote, believing
the boy would not likely have tried to retrieve
the murder weapon from the scene if it had
been cleaned of fingerprints.
Jurors 5, 6, and 8 question the witness's
claim to have seen the defendant fleeing 15
seconds after hearing the father's body hit
the floor, since he was physically incapable
of reaching an appropriate vantage point in
time due to a limp caused by a stroke.
An angry Juror 3 shouts that they are losing
their chance to "burn" the boy.
When Juror 8 accuses him of being a sadist,
Juror 3 lunges at him and yells "I'll kill
him, I'll kill him!", while Jurors 1 and 7
try to calm him down.
Juror 8 calmly retorts "You don't really mean
you'll kill me, do you?", securing his earlier
argument.
Jurors 2 and 6 change their votes, tying the
vote at 6–6.
A rainstorm then strikes the city, threatening
to cancel the game for which Juror 7 has tickets.
Juror 4 doubts the boy's alibi of being at
the movies, because he could not recall it
in much detail.
Juror 8 tests how well Juror 4 remembers previous
days, which he does, with difficulty.
Juror 2 questions the likelihood that the
boy, who was nearly a foot shorter than his
father, could have inflicted the downward
stab wound found in the body.
Next, Jurors 3 and 8 conduct an experiment
to see whether a shorter person could stab
downwards on a taller person.
The experiment proves the possibility, but
Juror 5 steps up and demonstrates the correct
way to hold and use a switchblade; revealing
that anyone skilled with a switchblade, as
the boy would be, would always stab underhanded
at an upwards angle against an opponent who
was taller than they, as the grip of stabbing
downwards would be too awkward and the act
of changing hands too time-consuming.
Increasingly impatient, Juror 7 changes his
vote to hasten the deliberation, which earns
him the ire of Jurors 3 and 11, both on opposite
sides of the debate.
Juror 11, an immigrant from Europe, presses
Juror 7 about using his vote frivolously,
until Juror 7 admits that he truly believes
the boy is not guilty.
Then, Jurors 12 and 1 change their votes,
leaving only three dissenters: Jurors 3, 4,
and 10.
Outraged, Juror 10 vents a torrent of condemnation
on slum-born people, claiming they are no
better than animals who kill for fun.
Offended, Juror 5 and Juror 11 turn their
backs to him.
All jurors soon follow, except for Juror 4.
Confused by the reactions to his rant, Juror
10 pleads: "listen to me.
Listen."
Juror 4, the only juror still facing him,
tersely responds: "I have.
Now sit down and don't open your mouth again."
Juror 10 then humiliatingly sits down in a
corner by himself.
When the remaining "guilty" voters are pressed
to explain themselves, Juror 4 states that,
despite all the previous evidence, the woman
from across the street who saw the killing
still stands as solid evidence.
Juror 12 then reverts his vote, making the
vote 8–4.
Juror 9, seeing Juror 4 rub his nose (which
is being irritated by his glasses), realizes
that the woman who allegedly saw the murder
had impressions in the sides of her nose,
indicating that she wore glasses, but did
not wear them in court out of vanity.
Other jurors, including Juror 4, confirm that
they saw the same thing.
Juror 8 adds that she would not have been
wearing them while trying to sleep and points
out that on her own evidence, the attack happened
so swiftly that she wouldn't have had time
to put them on.
Jurors 12, 10, and 4 change their vote to
"not guilty", leaving only Juror 3.
Juror 3 gives a long and increasingly tortured
string of arguments, building on earlier remarks
that his relationship with his own son is
deeply strained, which is ultimately why he
wants the boy to be guilty.
He finally loses his temper and tears up a
photo of him and his son, but then breaks
down crying and changes his vote to "not guilty",
making the vote unanimous.
The jurors then leave the room to reveal their
verdict to the judge.
In a show of compassion, Juror 8 helps a distraught
Juror 3 with his coat as they head out.
Outside, Jurors 8 (Davis) and 9 (McCardle)
exchange names and all of the jurors descend
the courthouse steps to return to their individual
lives.
Thank you for watching this episode of Cinema Summary, we hope you enjoyed it.